and tell me about the night.
How does... I mean, you've written so many different things.
I mean, my wife drove in with me and said, you know, look at the books that this guy's written.
Well, this is my big problem as a writer, because, you know, that if you can kind of do something so that you create an audience for that one thing, so...
Everyone knows it's a King C. Amos or it's a Le Carré.
You know, you've got a built-in audience.
But my thing is, my problem has always been that I can't get interested in subjects.
I mean, I don't want to do the same thing again, you know.
This is... This has got the... It started, you know, all... My...
The mission has been always to take these rather difficult subjects like suicide, divorce, and so on, but then to deal with them as though they were kind of part of life rather than abstract subjects, so that I'm there.
Because usually, you know, I might as well kind of play to my own mind with that.
Are they, in your view, abstractions when you start with that one?
Well, not really, but they're kind of complicated subjects, you know.
You can't really put your arms around the night.
Exactly.
Well, as I say in the book, the trouble with night is that it really was like one of those cone juice handkerchiefs, you know.
You know, you pull the blue, you know, it's got a blue one coming out of the top.
You pull it, there's a red one, there's a yellow one, there's a green one.
You know, it just went on and on and on and on and on.
Did you expect that it would be a four-year inquiry?
I mean, you mentioned four years.
I said, Jesus Christ, that's a lot.
That's a long time.
11 years in mind, but I knew it was a marathon going into it, you know?
In a way, I could have gone on forever with this.
That's the other thing.
I'll tell you something interesting.
That is that a lot of the time, my books always get shorter.
Is that right?
Yeah, I kind of...
I'm a great believer in kind of making it clear.
You know, if you can say it, you can say it clearly.
You don't have to.
But that takes time, you know.
It takes away a lot of the writing.
And it started my initial involvement.
It was quite simply that I got kind of totally hooked on sleep.
You mean the pleasure of it?
The pleasure of it.
Yeah, I just loved it.
And then, of course, it's very mysterious.
You start looking at sleep, and then it becomes a very mysterious subject.
Pardon me, but even as you've gotten older, the appreciation for him has made it.
Yeah, I do not believe what they tell you about the old get-by with less sleep.
I'm now 65.
So I started this when I was up in 59.
All I ever wanted to do was sleep.
Not altogether.
Because the other thing is that I'm also a very key poker player.
For someone who's obsessed with sleep, I don't get a lot older.
Yeah, but now, see, do you take naps?
Do you take naps?
Yeah.
I love naps.
I thrive on them.
Yeah.
I love having my wife drive me in, even, because going back, I'll take ten minutes in the car.
That's wonderful.
Yeah, if you can do it, it's marvelous.
And you mentioned wartime experiences.
I know I was on an aircraft carrier in Vietnam, and I literally lived immediately beneath the catapults.
And the O2 level was in light.
I was the one in the O2, O3.
I mean, you learn to sleep through this stuff.
You can sleep well.
I cannot sleep standing up, but I can sleep sitting down in a movie theater, in a lecture.
Oh, yeah.
On an airplane, cars, clock band, anywhere, anywhere.
And I can do it for five minutes and feel wonderfully refreshed.
You do feel much better.
People don't understand that, do they?
There's churches.
The thing is huge.
Church was one of those guys that got by with no sleep, but he had pan-maps all the time.
They do rejuvenate you, and they shut you up.
But of course, let's connect that with the night now.
I mean, I guess what we're saying is I can sleep.
I don't have to close the windows or anything like that.
It's not necessarily a night.
No, it's not necessarily an eye activity, but it tends to be an eye activity.
Even the animals go crazy during a quip.
Oh, no.
We're kind of rooted into this thing.
The other thing, of course, is where I kind of went off, got really involved and spent a lot of time, was that it's very much, you start thinking about sleep and dreams and so on, then you get involved in how the brain works.
And what you're really involved in is the question of mind.
The whole way the mind works is to sleep from the brain.
It's a very fascinating, very deep, complicated subject.
Yeah.
Do you find that... I mean, I know that I... This happens to me all the time, and I mean all the time.
Let's say I'm wrestling with something, and I'm writing something, and I...
Pardon me, I'll notice it.
You didn't say pardon me to pardon me.
And sometimes I'll wake up with the solution.
Oh, yeah.
Immediately.
Well, that's what I... It's the words out, that's right.
Or the word that's been escaping you for days.
Sure, that's right, yeah.
It's there, immediately.
So I've misplaced something, and I wake up knowing precisely where it is.
But you see, that's the whole point about, you know, what really...
The thing that I absolutely had no idea of when I started was that I just assumed that, you know, that the mind shut down when you saw it.
But in fact, you know, according to the neurophysiologist, it drops off five, maybe ten percent.
You know, the mind's buzzing away, and you're just thinking in different terms.
And you're thinking kind of visually.
You know, you're thinking with the right hemisphere and on the left hemisphere.
Did you see the review on today's New York Times?
Oh, yes, the Sunday one.
No, not of your book, but there are two books on dreams by Burroughs and Graham Greene that I reviewed and read them today.
But maybe after the fact that it's our time, take a look at it.
They did your book, I think.
They did Leavenhof, did it?
Yes, I actually did.
And then the Sunday Times did it.
It's a pain in the ass.
But it was so pompous.
I just thought she was on the...
Tell me why you picked New York.
New York.
Because ever since I came to New York... Are the clubs different in New York than they are in London?
I mean... Oh, shit, they are different.
Boy, I mean, that's really something.
I'll tell you one thing.
The clubs in New York and London, both of whom have terribly bad press, you know, were absolutely terrific.
I love New York.
Yeah.
I can't find anything wrong with it.
Well, New York.
Oh, no, New York itself.
I was talking about the cops.
The cops are just marvellous.
They have this, oh, fucking job.
I mean, you see, but beyond belief, you know, is stressful.
You know, and they've got their faces in night, whatever the time of day is, all the time, they're right pressed into it.
I think they keep sailing.
They keep decent.
And if they go off the rails sometimes, the miracle is that they go off the rails.
Well, I don't know how long you've been in the States, but they say that the incidence of suicide... Very high.
...New York Cops is like five times the national average, you know.
Brother Lowe once said to me that if there was a little switch in your arm that you could flick bacteria in the light,
to create suicide?
Everyone.
I don't think so.
You think that?
Because to me, the most ludicrous, it's almost an oxymoron is when you hear that somebody has attempted suicide.
Yeah.
That should be the easiest thing in the world to do.
Oh, sure, of course.
Absolutely, yeah.
You know, I mean, she attempted a suicide fight.
What do you mean, she attempted it?
Why did she fail?
How stupid can she be?
I mean, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean, aim the gun in your mouth or jump off a bridge.
I mean, it should be very easy.
Yeah, can't miss.
You can't miss, absolutely.
But what did you do to attempt, you know?
You're the authority of it.
Yeah, yeah.
What happened then was that she swallowed it.
Yeah, and then called the paramedics.
You know, the boyfriend or whatever.
You see, it's just bullshit, man.
But no, my thing is, I came first to the United States of America in 1953, and it was through love at first sight.
I've been crazy about America ever since.
And I was at Princeton as a graduate student,
But I was in New York a lot, and I just left New York.
And what that, what that, beginning of that, cops actually, is kind of hidden to New York, really.
Did you find riding with the cops at night?
I mean, do the predators really come out at night?
Oh, yeah.
And this is kind of interesting, because they know that there's something you can do, you know.
The drug dealers know that they can't,
you know, just be, you know, they can't, there's nothing the cops can do unless they can actually get another, you know, in the middle of a deal, you know.
And there's this kind of extraordinary sort of standoff thing that goes on.
Do you like to walk at night in the city?
Well, I've got this problem where I said something that I can't walk anymore, you know.
I love to walk at night.
I know it's dangerous, but I do it.
But the other thing is that in the smaller hours,
You know, cities really do change, but in some weird way, I mean, if you don't go into, you know, some crazy area, they become much more friendly.
You know, it is as though there was some kind of club that Insomniacs belonged to, you know.
Tell me about Las Vegas.
You read my book on Vegas.
Years ago.
Yeah, that's my favorite book, actually.
I love Vegas myself.
Yeah.
Atlantic City, as close as it is.
You mean to the other one?
You mean the Indians?
The Indians are still close.
Terrific.
It's only an hour from where I live.
Oh, really?
It's too close.
I'm a crapshoot.
Oh, you're a crapshoot.
Yeah, I don't.
You see, I'm, I'm, I actually, I'm a very serious poker player.
I know that.
But I, I don't gamble.
I don't, I play poker.
I, I, I really,
When I rode the big scale in town, I spent a month in Vegas here.
And you know, when you're in Vegas, you cannot get out of your hotel without going through the casino, yeah?
No clocks, no windows.
They pump oxygen in there, they can't use you up a little bit.
That's what I might sit on the way.
But the fact that I was, I never made a single best part for the military.
No, because you take this, you poke it very seriously.
Yeah, I love it.
You don't shoot craps or anything?
I tell you why I don't shoot craps.
I have a pal, a Canadian, who's a poker-playing pal of mine, and he used to run when he was a kid.
He ran an illegal craps game in Montreal.
and he said, I'll teach you trance.
Come with me, just do what I do.
So we went out, and I did exactly what he did.
Killed, right?
No, he finished up winning, and I started losing.
And I thought, there is some mystery here, but I cannot... Well, he was probably making a lot of playbacks.
Yeah, I don't know.
And I also think that because it's exciting and I'm an adrenaline chunk,
Yeah.
But it might, um, you know, I could get, I could see that it worked out.
The thing of it is, what's scary is that, and it's not much fun, is that you can lose all your money in 90 seconds.
I mean, it doesn't take long.
Especially with, I mean, I like to play five, ten dollar tables.
Who can afford $25 tables?
I mean, sure.
And of course, you don't want to just do the front line, you want to buy some numbers, you want to do some, that's, you've got 200 bucks out there or something, you know, one seven,
You sand them out.
I mean, they clean all those chips.
If you bet no, that's boring.
You're just waiting, waiting, waiting, waiting for the shooter, you know, to pull up seven.
And you can really get killed on that as well.
Can you get killed on that?
Oh, yeah.
I thought that's lucked in the old swing.
No, I mean, you wait forever.
I mean, and if you say, well, I think I'll bet with the shooter now.
I mean, you always get it wrong.
I mean, you have to make a decision.
You know the whole way.
I shouldn't report it.
kill myself when I got to transcribe it.
Are you familiar with the book that was published a couple months ago, The Primary Colors?
No.
By Alexander Theroux.
And it's pretty interesting.
I can see a similarity, I mean, with the treatment that you've done.
But yours is, I respect, and we have the same editor, Alan Peacock, at Holtz.
But I like what you've done a lot.
Because you've involved yourself.
You went out.
I think you've got to.
I think there's no point in doing a book.
Again, it's reading stuff.
I've read a book.
Address yourself to that.
That's what pisses me off about what Diane Ackerman said in The Times.
It's almost like you're reading essays out of professional magazines.
This is field work.
Yeah, absolutely.
The other thing that pissed me off was that I've had three letters from American
American writers whose opinion I really, you know, whose good opinion I want to have, you know?
Ralph.
And Bob Stone, I think.
Bob Stone.
And actually, just before I left, I got a letter from Deliver.
Those are three of my favorite writers.
Well, exactly.
Mine too.
And what all of them said was they really loved the way the book was organized.
These monks have never organized anything along with them.
I assumed she was just a reviewer, a New York Times reviewer, and couldn't see it.
In fact, she writes for the New Yorker.
What does she write?
She writes this, uh... The point is, I have always felt it.
I get it out of the way.
One of the reasons for doing this terrible trade, you know, there's no pleasure in writing, none, zero.
I hate the business.
And the satisfactions are true.
One is getting it right, getting a sentence absolutely right in the paragraph, absolutely right.
There's a kind of conflict of satisfaction in that, you know, a stonemason or something.
And the other thing is if...
I've always used to go out and look at things.
You know, when I wrote about the North Sea, I went out and lived on a wine estimation.
You know, the Vegas book gave me a chance to hang around professional poker.
Was it the cot leading the horse or the horse leading the crank?
Well, who knows?
Did you want to go to Vegas and play poker or anything?
How did you want to write a book about this?
I wanted to use the fact I was interested in poetry.
I mean, Sean, you see, William Sean, loved the idea of a poet going to Vegas.
You know, that was a kind of gaffy idea.
And it seems to me that this is what you should do.
Is there poetry in Vegas?
Well, I love about Vegas.
What I really love about Vegas is this kind.
It's the essence of that wonderful American cynicism.
I mean, cynicism, of course.
Which is, which is kind of, the Americans are kind of tougher and more realistic than the Europeans.
In most ways, I'll give you an example.
I went, I was in Vegas once, and I didn't want to go to a show, but I was with a couple of guys, one of them when we did a show.
And I said, OK, George Burns is on.
I'd been all these years, in fact, so I've never been to a show.
Don't mind going here to see George Burns.
So I called Caesar's Palace.
How long did this?
Ten years ago, yeah.
And the guy said, I want to take off and see for the George Burns show.
And this crably voice said, why do you want the Pelican show or the midnight show?
And I said, I don't know, what do you recommend?
He said, the guy's 88 years old, take the telephone.
I mean, you know, automatic reaction.
And I love that.
It is a uniquely American city.
That's right, yeah.
I think it is.
I mean, it's not Monte Carlo in Las Vegas.
No, I agree.
It's got none of that pretension that it hangs around gambling in Europe.
I think it's mindfully garish and outrageous.
Absolutely.
I mean, Liberace was a quintessential.
It's been mentioned in Vegas.
They don't reach, or they'll just say Liberace.
I've tried to place my literary column out there, and it's funny.
serious, you know.
On the other hand, I've got to tell you, it was the great irony, one of the great irony of my life, and that is that for a long time, in the 50s, 60s, I was, among other things, a poetry critic, and I was, and what again?
A poetry critic.
Okay, yes.
And I discovered Sylvia Plath, I discovered for the English, Berman and Roll, and so on and so forth,
I had all those Eastern European poems.
I was editing the series, I brought them all.
You know, they're all kind of complex now.
But I did it.
I'm sorry to say, I'm really not blowing my own trumpet.
But I honestly changed the way people read poetry to me in The Speaking World.
This was 30 years ago, yeah?
The only place I'm really famous is Las Vegas, Nevada.
Because of that book.
because of the biggest game in time, which they won't love.
Have you gotten away from the criticism?
Oh, yeah, I do.
Why is that?
A little too static, perhaps?
Yeah, exactly.
I started off, like a lot of people do, as a young university teacher.
And then I thought, I've never spent the whole of my life writing books about other people's books.
And basically, I've always assumed that I was a writer and this is a cop-out, if I do that, yeah?
So, I, um... I quit my job and do the same thing?
Yeah, exactly.
You've got to shoot the crap sucker.
Yeah, you've got to shoot, you've got it, that's right.
If you're a writer, you've got to fucking write.
You know, that, um... And I did, I...
And actually, that really was a gal, because I was offered a... I wasn't offered... I was an officer.
I was hanging around, and I'd talk there for a year, you know, in a kind of unofficial way.
And I was... And a job came up, and I was asked to apply, which is as near as they will get in that... I'd just got married for the first time to some totally inappropriate young lady.
And I looked at her and I thought, how can I take her?
I didn't work out, I didn't even bother, but I did not apply.
And it's the only real decision I've ever came.
I had no money.
I had 30, what was voted 30 shillings, one pound.
Now, £1.50 in the bank, nothing.
I was flatbread, and I thought, fuck it, I'm going to do my own thing.
What emerged from that decision?
Well, what emerged from that decision was that I then spent an awful lot of time having to write reviews and get some pieces in order to... How old were you about it then?
Twenty-seven.
Twenty-seven, I guess, just two years.
You said earlier you hate writing.
You don't mean that.
Well, I... It's a pain, yeah.
It's a pain in the ass.
Yeah, that's right.
Yeah, well, that's right.
I find it very difficult.
I can't sit down and just... Are you easily distracted?
Well, of course.
I mean, I had a ton of work.
I had four stories I had to have out by this morning.
I finished the last one 15 minutes before we left.
We have motives now.
Yeah, yeah.
We'll watch them.
You spend it all up in the head.
But, man, I watched the football games on Sunday.
You did?
Bet.
My wife says, well, you got all this work you do.
You got all these stories.
I said, oh, fuck it.
It's a big game.
I got money on this game.
What was the spread?
Oh, the spread, they were pretty close games, both of them, as a matter of fact.
In fact, I had San Diego, and San Diego, and Pittsburgh was really favored to beat San Diego, so the spread there was about 10 points or so.
But San Diego won.
So they covered easily, and then I had San Francisco, and they killed Dallas.
Yeah, they really did.
What was the spread of?
I didn't see this up yet.
It was about six and a half points.
It was close.
In fact, a lot of people thought that Dallas was going to work.
And they would have if they hadn't come from the first three possessions.
I mean, a woman might crap out of it.
But they basically thought they were a lousy game.
Yeah, I saw the second one.
I saw the 49ers.
But I mean, anything to stay away from getting that piece done.
I interview for, I do, publishes weekly now, which is kind of fun.
And I had a big PW piece that was due yesterday morning.
And I just, I did a spin-off of that for Hackensack, which is one of my papers.
And then my regular column had to go out today.
I got a piece I got to get to Minneapolis, which takes me tomorrow.
And I got three interviews this week.
So I have to say, I'm a little thin on... I didn't want to read the book pretty quickly, but when it comes down to, you know, writing it, I'm sure it'll be covered.
You always manage to get a little bit of literary criticism into all of your books.
I can't say I've read them all, but... Not all of them, but... Of course, and of course, the literature and sleep is endless.
Absolutely endless.
But you see, what I think is interesting...
What I found out about this was that writers writing about dreams, mostly about nonsense, but it's the way in which dreams, what I'm trying to discuss and talk about there is the way dreams really infect the arts.
The way you think when you're dreaming is the same as you think when you're really, you know, on song as a creative writer.
I'm sure glad you got Shakespeare and Coleridge in there.
Yeah, yeah.
Shakespeare had to be one of the world's great insomniacs, I'm sure.
I'm sure.
Well, Shakespeare was happening.
You probably said that it may be true.
Yeah, you never know.
That's the smartest sleep.
the innocent sleep.
I mean, he rhapsodized them.
Yeah, that's right.
And he lies the head that wears the crown.
I mean, the worst thing Shakespeare could do to somebody is to prod them of sleep.
That's right.
Look what happens to Lady of the Mid.
And Coleridge and Kublai Khan and all this other stuff.
There's a lot about that.
Which is a great story.
Yeah.
Did you learn anything that surprised, you know, you got into the REM stuff and the sleep laboratory?
Oh, sleep lab was absolutely fascinating, because first of all, I go and watch this guy being hooked up and so on and so on.
And that in itself is totally... Could you do that?
Well, I then went and had myself hooked up.
You know, in that same thing.
And that really pissed me off, because what happened was, I'd watched this and so on, and I'd been with this,
girl that used the head at the laboratory and walked her to get her out of life and what was happening and so on and so forth.
It was kind of really fascinating.
So I got a bunch laid up, get myself hooked up.
You're like Medusa, you know, kind of great hair full, head full of snakes, you know, electronic snakes.
So I thought, this is going to be very difficult.
You know, my obsession takes it.
I sleep like a baby.
You're perfect for this.
So I think, wonderful.
Then, three weeks later, a month later, whatever it is, the computer readout comes through.
I'd work in accordion to computer 23 o'clock in time.
I thought I'd work in one day.
Well, yeah, but it was just totally fascinating, because the actual, what the scientific machine
that had happened was totally, and varies to my own subjective experience.
Totally.
You know, you've been out in the middle of the ocean, and you talk about true darkness.
I remember when I was in the Navy crossing, being in the middle of the Pacific, and going out at night, because there's darkened ship, you have all these lights blazing, and the naval ship, and just being amazed at how
But this is it.
This is basically the thing I start from, and that is that we've lost darkness to the biggest step forward in kind of human progress.
The first great one was the stuff we found, you know, in the hospital in years ago, or 350,000 years ago, where it was.
And then the next one was about just over 100 years ago, when they
I just did a piece on Thomas Edison.
Exactly.
You know about this stuff.
Because that really changed a wonderful perception of the world.
Being in the service, of course, especially out at sea, and in a ship with no windows, there is no day and night.
No, that's right.
If you stand watches, and if you're out there for five or six weeks at a time,
You only know if it's daytime if you actually walk topside for any particular reason.
But you didn't.
You did or you didn't.
I mean, I did.
I used to go up.
I love to watch the airplanes take off and land, so I did that.
And I was always, you know, I remember computing wouldn't be in the absolute middle of the Pacific Ocean.
I wanted to, you know, throw a dime out there or anything.
Going down on the fly.
So, I mean, I would think about that.
But the guys that worked down in the boiler rooms, the night sweepers.
No perception there.
They called me snipes.
Snipes, yes.
I don't know if they used the same phrase on the British people, but they're the guys that work on the boilers.
Yeah.
I once wrote my passage on it.
It was just when I was fresh out of school.
But it was something real.
But I worked in the boardroom when I first arrived.
Somebody's whacking away at a saxophone out there.
Can you hear it?
Yeah.
It's this crazy world.
Yeah, I'll put this up in the table.
What's your schedule, by the way?
I don't have a week.
You can't keep a lunch.
Actually, I got my wife downstairs, so I'm going to meet up with her at about 1230.
Okay, well, whatever.
I appreciate it, but thank you very much.
So what are you working on now, might we ask?
A lot.
I'm doing a
longish piece of the New Yorker.
I found the complication with this, what I want to do is I want to do a book on risk.
I spent the whole of my life doing risk sports.
The book that I felt I was put on this planet to write is
Now what happened here?
I'll tell you, the book I really, really wanted to write, I wanted to get on a space shot with, and I was agitated with Sean, too.
No kidding.
I was about to have done that.
And I have gone on the next one after Challenger, too.
Yeah, I was actually agitated to get on to Challenger.
And he wouldn't have it.
He said, it's too dangerous, you know.
And, but I read, you know, I'm kind of a poet.
I've got a really good eye for what happens, and I love machinery.
Did you apply it after all?
No, I just did it through him, because there's no way an Englishman at that point, 50-something years.
Yeah, they sent the senator out, but I would have loved, and I'd love to have gone on one of those ships that went around the moon, and that's total darkness.
Yeah, that.
I'm just reading Lovell's book about that.
Yeah, yeah.
Go behind the moon.
And that is, in fact, and then when they come around, and then it's total light.
Yeah.
You know?
And there was a book published a couple of years ago about, you know, still one of the great I answer questions.
How is it that light can go through, sunlight can go through the sky, and it's dark only until it hits like something?
Why is it black in the sky?
You know, why is the sky black?
It's not illuminated, except that when it hits your spaceship or hits the Earth.
I don't think that there's a satisfactory answer to it.
There's a book on it, and when I think of it, I'll think about it.
These guys are up here in their spaceship, total darkness.
They come around the corner, and then the thing is totally illuminated in light.
But what's interesting, of course, is that these suns from other galaxies don't, you know, that they're light.
It doesn't.
You think it would be measurable?
I thought it would be like starlight or something.
You'd think so, wouldn't you?
Yeah, which is kind of light.
Okay.
Do you want to know what happened there?
I'll tell you what happened there.
1960.
I used to be a very serious rock climber.
I really loved it.
Good.
And 1960, the Russians sent a team of climbers to Great Britain.
And I was climbing with them in North West.
These poor buckles have never been outside the Soviet Union.
They're never going to get out again.
And they're really nice guys.
And one of them fell off a terrible one on the face.
He broke his leg.
So the following day, I pretend.
I fell off all the same.
The following day, broke my leg.
was taken to some worse hospital, which was like being in Zaire, you know, they hadn't invented anything, you know.
And I broke my leg, and I also tore all the ligaments in the eye.
But they didn't notice them.
They didn't even look at the end.
And they swept the leg wrong.
You're right.
Yeah.
And now the whole thing is going off really good.
So there's no, what's called cartilage between the
Um, the leg bone and the anchor, that's just bone, right?
They never would have let you go up on the shuttle, by the way.
Well, it wasn't, it hadn't happened at that point.
It was, it was, I was still, I was climbing, what would it be?
Um, five, seven, in American standards, hard rock, until I was, well, less than two years before I was 63.
So, you know, it wasn't... What do you think the kick would have been for you?
Just a whole stage of going up there, the watch?
Would you like to see the planet?
Oh, I'd like to love it.
Wouldn't she like a hundred thousand horses up your ass, you know?
I flew at the Blue Angels once.
Oh, did you?
I've got a pal who flies over the place, and I fly with everybody on that sort of stuff.
Oh, boy.
I mean, he's stuck around its ass, too.
Yeah.
I mean, we were...
20,000 feet or whatever.
Nothing.
And then we did that.
And I have a pilot's license, so he let me do a little landing.
Oh, really?
And that was even, being on a carrier, I was a naval officer on an aircraft carrier, so I had my sure of cat shots, catapults, and landings, which are, you know— You were to fly.
I was our pilot, but I was a public affairs guy, and I had connections, and I—
was able to trade things like newspapers and movies and dirty pictures.
I love that.
Me too, yeah.
Well, now I can't climb anywhere.
I've got a pal who corrects old airplanes to handle it.
And he does a quick plane.
He flies down to some big
who's a lovely guy.
And we fly down, it's very, you know, a whole lot of us fly down in different, in various places, in sort of, you know, in formation practice.
They're just boozing and take three days.
But twice now, I've come back with this guy.
in 60-year-old plays, 1930s, made out of, you know, wood and canvas and great single-edged.
Yeah, but they're great airplanes.
And we've done it in a day, a red search of England.
I mean, those D.C.
Drees are still a great thing.
I know.
They're 60 years old.
Yeah.
They're pale dragons, for God's sake.
That's right, all these greats.
Yeah.
And they're great.
No, it's...
Just fantastic.
But unfortunately, I don't fly, he said.
I have a phone.
My wife is a kid.
That's right, yeah.
And I also maintain, I'm 51.
Unless you aren't doing it off.
You've got to do it a lot.
You can't do it for me two or three hours.
No, you've got to keep your license.
Not just that.
I mean, you should keep current, but you get rusty.
It's like anything.
Sure, yeah.
If you lose your stroke, forget it.
It is kind of paradoxical.
I mean, you really get your adrenaline rush out of things, and yet your training is as a critic, a poet.
It is kind of fun, actually.
People have lots of science to them.
The whole part of my life has been
You know, I don't want to get just stuck with literature.
You know, you only get one shot at this panel, you know, so you might as well see what's on offer.
That's a good quote.
I always look for the kicker.
I always know, I'm quite confident I have what my lead is, but I'm always looking for the one to end it with, you know.
I think he just gave it to me.
Okay, that's great.
Okay.
All right.
Would you do me the honors of...
inscribing this.